Paragraphs are the building blocks of papers. Many students define paragraphs in terms of length: a paragraph is a group of at least five sentences, a paragraph is half a page long, etc. In reality, though, the unity and coherence of ideas among sentences is what constitutes a paragraph. A paragraph is defined as “a group of sentences or a single sentence that forms a unit” (Lunsford and Connors 116). Length and appearance do not determine whether a section in a paper is a paragraph. For instance, in some styles of writing, particularly journalistic styles, a paragraph can be just one sentence long. Ultimately, a paragraph is a sentence or group of sentences that support one main idea.
Abul Kalam Azad Jayanti is celebrated on 11th November every year. It is the birth anniversary of Maulana Abul Kalam Azad. Abul Kalam Azad was born on 11th November, 1888. His real name was Abul Kalam Ghulam Muhiyuddin. His father's name was Maulana Khairuddin, who lived in Bengal. His mother's name was Alia, who was an Arabian.Maulana Azad was a journalist, author, poet and philospher. He started to publish the newspaper 'Al-Hilal' in the year 1912. Al-Hilal played an important role in forging Hindu-Muslim unity. He wrote many works, reinterpreting the holy Quran. He played an active role in the freedom movement of India.He became the first Education Minister of independent India.
Ruskin calls books, "Kings' Treasures" treasuries filled, not with gold and silver and precious stones, but with riches much more valuable than these -- knowledge, noble thoughts and high ideals. Man has secured a life-long source of pleasure, instruction and inspiration by acquiring the habit of reading the books. Poor indeed is the man who does not read, and empty is his life.The reading habits confer the many blessings.We should choose the right kind of books. The reading gives the highest kind of pleasure. When we are tired or the brain is weary with serious study, it is healthy recreation to lose ourselves in some absorbing story written by a master hand.
Braille is a system of writing especially for the blind. This system was perfected by a Frenchman Louis Braille (1809- 52). Louis Braille himself was a blind. Louis Braille went blind following a childhood accident in his early age. Braille is named after its creator, Louis Braille. Braille is a special alphabet used by the blind. The alphabet is marked by raised dots on stiff paper which blind persons can understand by the touch of their fingers. Each letter in the Braille alphabet consists of one or more raised dots. The number and arrangement of these dots distinguish one character from another. Books in Braille have to be quite thick.
